# HTML Attributes

HTML attributes are used to define the characteristics of an HTML element. 
They are placed within the element's opening tag **&** consist of two parts: the **name** and the **value**.
- **Name**: Specifies the property for that element.
- **Value**: Sets the value of that property for the element.

## Types of HTML Attributes

<big>There are three main types of HTML attributes:</big>

1. **Core/Global Attributes**: These are basic attributes that can be applied to most HTML elements.
2. **Internationalization Attributes**: These attributes help adapt the document to different languages and regions. Examples include `lang` and `dir`.
3. **Generic Attributes**: These attributes provide additional information about the element but don't necessarily affect its appearance or behavior. 

<big>Core/Global attributes are some of the most widely used attributes in HTML.</big> 
There are four main types:
- id
- class
- title
- style

### ID Attribute
The ID attribute is used to assign a unique identifier to an HTML element. 
Each element with an ID has its own unique identity, similar to how each individual has a unique identity. Multiple elements cannot have the same ID.
Example:
```markup
  <p id="html">This is an HTML tutorial</p>
  <p id="python">This is a Python tutorial</p>
```
In this example, the ID attribute helps to distinguish between two paragraphs by having different values: "html" and "python".

### Class Attribute
The class attribute is used to associate an HTML element with a particular class, typically for styling or JavaScript manipulation. 
Unlike the ID attribute, the class attribute is not unique, and multiple elements can share the same class.

### Title Attribute
The title attribute provides additional information about an element and is often displayed as a tooltip when the mouse hovers over it.
Example:
```html
  <h4 title="hello, motto">Title attribute</h4>
```

### Style Attribute
The style attribute allows for inline styling of HTML elements. 
It is used in conjunction with CSS properties to directly style individual elements within the HTML code.


> [!warning] Case sensivity
> The HTML standard is flexible about the case of attribute names, allowing them to be written in either uppercase or lowercase, such as "title" or "TITLE." 
> However, for best practices and compatibility with stricter document types like XHTML, the W3C recommends using lowercase attributes.

---

# HTML Comments

<big>Comments</big> in HTML are like little notes you leave in your code for yourself that doesn't show up in actual website.

<u>HTML primarily supports two types of comments</u>:
## Single-line Comments

Single-line comments are contained within one line. They are useful for short annotations.

Example:
```html
  <!-- This is a single-line comment -->
```

## Multi-line Comments

Multi-line comments span across multiple lines, making them ideal for detailed explanations or temporarily disabling blocks of code.

Example:

```html
<!-- 
  This is a multi-line comment.
  It spans multiple lines.
-->
```

---

# [[4. Id & Classes|Next Chapter>>>]]
